# Plan for UI redesign, Jan 2022
When I started PonyMTG, I kinda threw the interface together in a way that _kind of_ made sense at the time, but wasn't all that great. Therefore, I'm looking at a way to redesign it for modern devices.

## UI recap

### Overview
PonyMTG is completely client-side; the entire database (ie. a set of JSON files) is fetched when you start the site. This was essentially for my own convenience - I didn't want to bother with interfacing with a back-end, setting up a server, etc.

The site uses Bootstrap 3.3.6 for CSS styling.

A lot of elements are dynamically generated inside the Javascript in response to actions. These aren't templated - they're just built in Javascript DOM.

### Card search
The card search is the "main" part of the application, the part that you get when you visit the front page of the site. I modelled it after Google, so it's deliberately minimalist - you get just a search bar, a search button, and a "search options" button that opens a menu.

If you enter something and press "Search" , a panel of search results appear. This panel is generated in `js/main.js:displayResults`.

At the top of the panel is a pagination control element, generated by `generatePaginationControlElement`. This has a "Previous page" and "Next page" button.

Below that is the card table itself, generated by `generateCardTableElement`. This is a `div.container-fluid` panel. The method adds an internal `div.row` panel inside the container for each card. Overall, it looks like this:

    div.container-fluid (Card search results)
    |
    +-- div.row (Card result)
    |   |
    |   +-- div.col-md-5 (Card image/proxy)
    |   |
    |   +-- div.col-md-7 (Card properties)
    |
    +-- div.row (Card result)
    |   |
    |   +-- div.col-md-5 (Card image/proxy)
    |   |
    |   +-- div.col-md-7 (Card properties)
    |
    .
    .
    .

Surprisingly, the card search results panel is more responsive than expected. If you resize the page width, the `div.col-md-*` elements stack on top of each other. I was not sure why this is, but it seems like it might be because all `.col-md-5` elements have `float: left`, which would cause the elements to wrap when there is no space for them.

#### Issues with card search
* The use of white boxes on white makes it difficult to distinguish UI elements.
* The text size is too small.
* It isn't clear how the card proxies connect to their info boxes - they just kind of float next to each other.
* The right edge of the card info boxes don't align with the right edge of the pagination control panel. This is because the card info box (`div.col-md-7`) has 15px of right padding.
* The card proxy simply floats in free space, not really connected to anything. It is inside a panel (`div.col-md-5`); it's just that the panel is invisible. This creates gaps of white space.

### Overall issues
* The site is not responsive.
* The default text size is way too small, leaving a lot of empty space everywhere.
